Multiple Adaptive Agents for Tactical Driving.
Recent research in automated highway systems has ranged from
low-level vision-based controllers to high-level route-guidance software.
However, there is currently no system for tactical-level reasoning. Such a
system should address tasks such as passing cars, making exits on time, and
merging into a traffic stream. Many previous approaches have attempted to
hand construct large rule-based systems which capture the interactions
between multiple input sensors, dynamic and potentially conflicting
subgoals, and changing roadway conditions. However, these systems are
extremely difficult to design due to the large number of rules, the manual
tuning of parameters within the rules, and the complex interactions between
the rules. Our approach to this intermediate-level planning is a system
which consists of a collection of autonomous agents, each of which
specializes in a particular aspect of tactical driving. Each agent examines
a subset of the intelligent vehicles sensors and independently recommends
driving decisions based on their local assessment of the tactical
situation. This distributed framework allows different reasoning agents to
be implemented using different algorithms.When using a collection of agents to solve a single task, it is vital to
carefully consider the interactions between the agents. Since each reasoning
object contains several internal parameters, manually finding values for
these parameters while accounting for the agents possible interactions is a
tedious and error-prone task. In our system, these parameters, and the
systems overall dependence on each agent, is automatically tuned using a
novel evolutionary optimization strategy, termed Population-Based
Incremental Learning (PBIL).Our system, which employs multiple automatically trained agents, can
competently drive a vehicle, both in terms of the user-defined evaluation
metric, and as measured by their behavior on several driving situations
culled from real-life experience. In this article, we describe a method for
multiple agent integration which is applied to the automated highway system
domain. However, it also generalizes to many complex robotics tasks where
multiple interacting modules must simultaneously be configured without
individual module feedback.
