Parallel Algorithms for Discovery of Association Rules.
Discovery of association rules is an important data mining task.
Several parallel and sequential algorithms have been proposed in the
literature to solve this problem. Almost all of these algorithms make
repeated passes over the database to determine the set of frequent
itemsets (a subset of database items), thus incurring
high I/O overhead. In the parallel case, most algorithms perform a
sum-reduction at the end of each pass to construct the global counts, also
incurring high synchronization cost.In this paper we describe new parallel association mining algorithms. The
algorithms use novel itemset clustering techniques to approximate the set of
potentially maximal frequent itemsets. Once this set has been identified,
the algorithms make use of efficient traversal techniques to generate the
frequent itemsets contained in each cluster. We propose two clustering
schemes based on equivalence classes and maximal hypergraph cliques, and
study two lattice traversal techniques based on bottom-up and hybrid search.
We use a vertical database layout to cluster related transactions together.
The database is also selectively replicated so that the portion of the
database needed for the computation of associations is local to each
processor. After the initial set-up phase, the algorithms do not need any
further communication or synchronization. The algorithms minimize I/O
overheads by scanning the local database portion only twice. Once in the
set-up phase, and once when processing the itemset clusters. Unlike previous
parallel approaches, the algorithms use simple intersection operations to
compute frequent itemsets and do not have to maintain or search complex hash
structures.Our experimental testbed is a 32-processor DEC Alpha cluster
inter-connected by the Memory Channel network. We present results on the
performance of our algorithms on various databases, and compare it against a
well known parallel algorithm. The best new algorithm outperforms it by an
order of magnitude.
