Group Theory and Computational Linguistics.
There is currently much interest in bringing together the tradition
of categorial grammar, and especially the Lambek calculus, with the
recent paradigm of linear logic to which it has strong ties. One
active research area is designing non-commutative versions of linear
logic (Abrusci, 1995; Retor, 1993) which can be sensitive to word
order while retaining the hypothetical reasoning capabilities of
standard (commutative) linear logic (Dalrymple et al., 1995). Some
connections between the Lambek calculus and computations in groups
have long been known (van Benthem, 1986) but no serious attempt has
been made to base a theory of linguistic processing solely on group
structure. This paper presents such a model, and demonstrates the
connection between linguistic processing and the classical algebraic
notions of non-commutative free group,
conjugacy, and
group presentations. A grammar in this model, or
G-grammar is a collection of lexical expressions which are
products of logical forms, phonological forms, and inverses of
those. Phrasal descriptions are obtained by forming products of
lexical expressions and by cancelling contiguous elements which are
inverses of each other. A G-grammar provides a symmetrical
specification of the relation between a logical form and a
phonological string that is neutral between parsing and generation
modes. We show how the G-grammar can be oriented for each of the
modes by reformulating the lexical expressions as rewriting rules
adapted to parsing or generation, which then have strong
decidability properties (inherent reversibility). We give examples
showing the value of conjugacy for handling long-distance movement
and quantifier scoping both in parsing and generation. The paper
argues that by moving from the free monoid over a vocabulary V
(standard in formal language theory) to the free group over V, deep
affinities between linguistic phenomena and classical algebra come
to the surface, and that the consequences of tapping the
mathematical connections thus established can be considerable.
